# Introduction to Postman course notes

## Unit 1 - Introduction to Postman

### Lesson 1 - Welcome

#### 📚 - Resources

* [Say THANK YOU for this course by subscribing on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/@vdespa?sub_confirmation=1)
* [Join the Postman newsletter](https://sendfox.com/lp/m74j2r)

### Lesson 2 - What is Postman?

#### 💡 - Main ideas
- Postman is a tool that allows us to easily work with APIs.
- Postman is used to build HTTP requests that we send to the server running the API.

### Lesson 3 - How to install Postman

#### 💡 - Main ideas
- There are two ways to run Postman: 
   * As a standalone app or 
   * Directly in the browser
- The standalone app is available for Windows, macOS, and Linux.
- Postman on the web works from any browser but you may need to download the Postman Desktop Agent if your requests fail.
- DO NOT use the Google Chrome extension as this is deprecated and no longer updated.

#### 📚 - Resources

* [Download Postman App](https://www.postman.com/downloads/)
* [Open Postman on the web](https://go.postman.co/build)
* [Postman Desktop Agent (scroll down)](https://www.postman.com/downloads/)

### Lesson 4 - Your first request with Postman

#### 💡 - Main ideas

- To use an API you need to read the API documentation. We're using Simple Books API whose documentation can be found in the resources section of this lesson below.
- Work in Postman is organized in Workspaces.
- A status code 200 (or any status like 2XX) indicates that the request was successful.

#### 📚 - Resources

* [Simple Books API documentation](./simple-books-api.md)


### Lesson 5 - HTTP

#### 💡 - Main ideas

- The API we are using uses the HTTPS protocol.
- HTTPS stands for Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol.
- HTTPS ensures that the connection is encrypted.
- All APIs should use HTTPS.
- From our point of view HTTP and HTTPS are the same.
- The HTTP request message will contain: 
   * URL (address)
   * Request method (GET, POST, PUT, ...)
   * Headers (User-Agent: Postman)
   * Body
- The HTTP response message will contain: 
   * Status code (200, 404, 500, ...)
   * Headers
   * Body

### Lesson 6 - Postman collections and variables

#### 💡 - Main ideas
- You can save requests so that you can re-use them later on.
- All requests need to be added to a Postman collection.
- Typically you will have a Postman collection for each API.
- We are storing the base address of the API in a collection variable called `baseUrl`. 
- Our saved baseUrl will be displayed as `{{baseUrl}}` in the address bar.
- Variables allow us to avoid repeating the same information.
- Variables allow us to easily make changes.
- A Postman variable has two states
   * INITIAL VALUE - This will be available to others if you share the collection.
   * CURRENT VALUE - This is private to you and this is the value that Postman uses.


### Lesson 7 - Query parameters

#### 💡 - Main ideas
- JSON is the most popular format that APIs use to send data.
- Query parameters start after the `?` in the URL.
   * example : `{{baseUrl}}/books?type=fiction`
- The format is `key=value`
- Muliple query parameters are delimited in the URL with an `&`. 
   * example: `foo=1&bar=2`
- Depending on the API, some query parameters can be optional or mandatory.
- A response status 400 indicates an issue with the request data.
- You can enable and disable parameters by clicking the checkbox associated with each key-value pair.

### Lesson 8 - Assignment
- Study the API documentation and use the `limit` query parameter in the `/books` endpoint.
- Try out different values.
- Can you make the API return a status code 400?


### Lesson 9 - Path variables

#### 💡 - Main ideas
- `:bookId` is a path variable in the URL.
- This endpoint allows us to specify a value that changes all the time, depending on the book.
- `:bookId` is just a placeholder and does not get sent.
- You can use path variables in combination with query parameters (if the API accepts this).


### Lesson 10 - POST request / API Authentication

#### 💡 - Main ideas
- A `POST` request allows you to send data in the request body.
- The endpoint for submitting orders requires authentication.
- Some APIs/endpoints are public and require no authentication.
- Other APIs/endpoints are private and require authentication.
- An access token is temporary password generated by the API.
- To send JSON, select the POST request method and from the Body select `Raw` and from the list `JSON`.

### Lesson 11 - JSON format

#### 💡 - Main ideas
- You need to specify valid JSON, otherwise the server won't understand your request.
- Use double-quotes `""` for strings, separate key-value pairs with a comma sign `,`
- Numbers, booleans don't need to be between quotes.
- Postman will indicate when your JSON is invalid.


### Lesson 12 - Assignment

- Create the POST request to order a book.
- Try ordering a book that is not in stock.

### Lesson 13 - Random test data

#### 💡 - Main ideas
- You can use a special type of Postman variable to generate random data
   * example: `{{$randomFullName}}`
- To inspect the request body you can use the Postman console.

#### 📚 - Resources

* [Dynamic variables in Postman](https://postman-quick-reference-guide.readthedocs.io/en/latest/dynamic-variables.html)

### Lesson 14 - Is Postman the right tool for me?

#### 💡 - Main ideas
- Postman is a tool for dealing with APIs.
- Postman cannot work with User Interfaces, click buttons and fill out forms.
- Postman is not a performance testing tool.
- Postman can be used for security testing but has not been designed for this purpose.

### Lesson 15 - Viewing existing orders

#### 💡 - Main ideas
- Using the GET request method on the `orders` endpoint will give us a list of orders.
- Using the POST request method on the same endpoint will let us create a new order.

### Lesson 16 - Assignment

- Look at the API documentation and identify the endpoint that would allow you to see a single order.

### Lesson 17 - PATCH request

#### 💡 - Main ideas
- A `PATCH` request is typically used for updating existing data.
- A `PATCH` usually does a partial update, by changing only some of the properties.

### Lesson 18 - DELETE request

#### 💡 - Main ideas
- A `DELETE` request is used for deleting data.
- If you try to get the same data with a `GET` request, you will get a `404 Not Found` status code.

## Unit 2 - Test automation with Postman

### Lesson 19 - Introduction to test automation

#### 💡 - Main ideas

- In this second part of the course, our goal is to automate testing of the API.
- So far, we have done manual testing but we want to write API tests to avoid having to manually re-test the API

### Lesson 20 - Your first API tests

#### 💡 - Main ideas
- We are looking at the response to understand if the API is working properly.
- With API tests we want to avoid manually re-testing the API.
- Tests in Postman are written in JavaScript.
- Tests are executed ONLY after the response has arrived from the API.
- Postman uses an assertion library called Chai.js
- Testing the response status code is one of the easiest tests you can write.
- When writing tests, we want to make sure the tests fail.
- To make the assertions on a JSON response, you first need to parse it.
- To see the contents of a JavaScript variable you can use `console.log()`
- To get a property of an object, you can use this syntax: `someobject.someproperty`
   * alternative syntax: `someobject["someproperty"]`

#### 📚 - Resources

* [Introduction to JavaScript for Postman (full course for FREE)](https://youtu.be/juuhb3W8xT4) 
* [Chai Assertion Library](https://www.chaijs.com/api/bdd/)
* [Make Sure Your Tests Fail, Valentin Despa | Postman Galaxy 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a7G8Yrb5qWU)

### Lesson 21 - Assignment
- Add tests for all the requests in the collection that verify the status code.

### Lesson 22 - Postman variables

#### 💡 - Main ideas 
- Postman variables are fundamental to automating testing of the API.
- Postman environments (environment variables) are good if you have multiple testing environments (localhost, testing, production)
- Postman collection variables are saved in the collection.
- Postman global variables are available to all collection in a workspace.
- We use Postman global variables as the data we save is not that important after the execution has stopped.

#### 📚 - Resources

- [Demystifying Postman Variables: HOW and WHEN to use Different Variable Scopes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1GOZh3ZITZU)
- [How to set up different URLs in Postman using environment variables](https://youtu.be/HiIJbmjeTPU)

### Lesson 23 - Extracting data from the response

#### 💡 - Main ideas

- Having hardcoded values in requests can make the API tests fail if the data changes.
- We are using the filter function available on all arrays to remove the books that are not available.
- Always use `console.log()` to view the data you are trying to set as a variable.

#### 📚 - Resources

* [Array.prototype.filter()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/filter)

### Lesson 24 - Assignment
- Test that the book extracted from the response is of type `non-fiction`
- Ensure that the test fails.

### Lesson 25 - Assignment
- Use the Postman global variable `bookId` in the requests "Get single book" and "Order book".
- Write a test that verifies the stock is >0
   * use this assertion as a starting point: `pm.expect(1).to.be.above(2)`

### Lesson 26 - Collection runner

#### 💡 - Main ideas

- The Collection runner is a built-in functionality of Postman.
- The Collection runner allows you to execute the entire collection with just one click.
- Make sure to check (:white_check_mark:) the "Save response" box as this will allow you to inspect the response body.

### Lesson 27 - Request execution order

#### 💡 - Main ideas
- If you run a Postman collection, the default order is as you have it in the collection.
- You can change that order if you use `postman.setNextRequest` and specify the name of the next request
- If you wish to stop the execution prematurely, you can so so by running `postman.setNextRequest(null)`

#### 📚 - Resources

* [Advanced workflows (request chaining) with Postman](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FWYKOR0Zj28)

### Lesson 28 - Postman monitors

#### 💡 - Main ideas
- Creating a Postman monitor ensures that you can run a Postman collection according to a pre-defined schedule.
- Running the collection will be handled by Postman on their infrastructure, you don't need to keep Postman open.
- If you are not familiar with continuous integration servers like Jenkins, GitLab CI or TeamCity, this is a quick and easy way to access a Postman collection.
- The API needs to be accessible from any network.

### Lesson 29 - Newman

#### 💡 - Main ideas
- Newman is a CLI tool that can take a Postman collection, run all the tests and generate a report at the end.
- Newman does not have an interface, you need to work with it from the terminal.
- Often Newman is installed on an integration server like Jenkins, GitLab CI or TeamCity.
- To run Newman on your computer, you need to have Node.js installed.
   * you can download Node.js from https://nodejs.org/ (download the LTS version)
- To install newman, run the command: `npm install -g newman`
- Check if newman is install with: `newman --version`
- There are three ways to access a collection from Newman:
   * Export the collection as a JSON file.
   * Share with a public link.
   * Use the Postman API to get the collection.


#### 📚 - Resources

* [Postman API](https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/631643/JsLs/?version=latest)
* [Newman Support](https://learning.postman.com/docs/running-collections/using-newman-cli/command-line-integration-with-newman/)

### Lesson 30 - HTML reports with Newman

#### 💡 - Main ideas
- htmlextra is the most popular reporter in the Postman community

#### 📚 - Resources

* [htmlextra reporter](https://www.npmjs.com/package/newman-reporter-htmlextra)
* [Postman / Newman: Create better HTML reports](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EkrNGZxT0_k)


### Lesson 31 - CI/CD overview

#### 💡 - Main ideas
- Newman is particularly useful when you integrate it with a CI server.

#### 📚 - Resources

* [Newman Jenkins Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7ar4-O3vNiM)
* [Newman GitLab CI Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H0WiDqhDIOs)

* ++ 
extra Resource
 ➡️ 1. What is Postman?
  It is not an API Testing Tool
  Postman is collaboration platform for API development
  Help you to Design, Share, build , test, Document APIs
  Postman supports Protocols - REST, SOAP, and GraphQL
  Where as CURL 
   Source curl.se
  Website
   https://www.postman.com/
  Can use as
   
 ➡️ 2. Why use Postman?
  Clean and Easy to use UI
  You can perform Exploratory Testing of APIs
  Dynamic request, data and Collections support
  Team workspace, sharing, mocking, monitoring of APIs
  Write test case, put them in CI/CD with newman
  Import from curl and different ways, sharing as link, explore feature
 ➡️ 3. When to use Postman?
  Context as Software Tester
   You have few API request
   You don’t want to manage as code
   Team is little not well versed with code
   You want to cover API test(small collection)
 ➡️ 4. What are drawbacks of Postman?
  Not suitable for the larger or 1000+ API request
  For Large project its very clumsy to manage postman requests or collections
  Not suitable if you want to manage as Code, lots of duplicate code if multiple API or dynamic request are required. 
 ➡️ 5. What is an API?
  API stands for the Application Programming Interface,
  They are basically a collection of functions and procedures which allows us to communicate two applications or libraries.
  
  
  Read more at
   https://sdet.live/4Euj
 ➡️ 6. Can you tell alternates of Postman?
  Katalon Studio
  SoapUI
  Apigee
  Jmeter
  Tricentis Tosca
  hoppscotch.io
 ➡️ 7. What are different HTTP Methods?
  GET
  POST
  PATCH
  PUT
  DELETE
  OPTIONS
  HEAD
 ➡️ 8. Can you test SOAP request with POSTMAN?
  Yes
  Demo
   https://sdet.live/4Eus
 ➡️ 9. What is GET request?
  Retrieve information from the given server using a given URI.
  Requests using GET should only retrieve data and should have no other effect on the data.
 ➡️ 10. What is POST request?
  A POST request is used to send data to the server, for example, customer information, file upload, etc. using HTML forms.
  With or without Auth
 ➡️ 11. What is Patch Request?
  Partial Update to the target resource
 ➡️ 12. What is Put request?
  Replaces all current representations of the target resource with the uploaded content.
 ➡️ 13. What is Delete request?
  Removes all current representations of the target resource given by a URI.
 ➡️ 14. What is HEAD http method?
  Same as GET, but transfers the status line and header section only.
 ➡️ 15. What you validate in API Response?
  Status Code
  Response Body
   Further Testing
  Headers
 16. How do import request from dev tools to Postman?
  
 17. What type of Authentication supports Postman? 
  No auth
  Basic
  Digest
  Bearer Token
  AWS Signature
  NTLM
  OAuth1,2
  API key
  
 18. What is Basic Auth, How to perform in Postman ?
  https://scrolltest.com/2018/11/22/how...
  Basic access authentication is a method for an HTTP user agent (e.g. a web browser) to provide a username and password when making a request. In the example, 
  https://learning.postman.com/docs/sen...
 19. What is digest auth?, How to perform in POSTMAN?
  In the Digest Auth. method username and password are sent over the web after applying some hash functions, Therefore which makes it more secure over network.
  https://learning.postman.com/docs/sen...
 20. What is bearer token? And How to use it with POSTMAN?
  Bearer tokens allow requests to authenticate using an access key, such as a JSON Web Token (JWT).
 21. What is OAuth 1.0 & 2.0:-
 and How to do it with POSTMAN?
  They are the way for Internet users to grant websites or applications access to their information on other websites but without giving them the passwords.
  https://learning.postman.com/docs/sen...
  https://learning.postman.com/docs/sen...
